1. A browser is what you use to view webpages. it translates html and
	css into a viewable format and displays it on your screen. Your 
	computer and the browser are the client, while the server is 
	where it gets its information from on the network youre accessing, 
	whether that is the internet, or a local server intranet. rendering 
	the process of the server sending you the info to your client
2. HTML is the language used to build websites. Elements are chunks of your
	website, such as divisions on the page, while tags generally make up
	whats in these, like like paragraphs or the title section. attributes 
	parts of elements that define it, doing things like changing colors or 
	setting up tables. block elements are entire sections that are defined
	one way, while inline elements are most parts of those sections that 
	are more uniquely defined. inline elements are normally in block elements
	while block elements are not normally in inline elements, though they
	can be in other block elements. 
3. Definitions of some various elements: the head of the document stores general 
	information on the document, as well as containing the title. the body
	of a website is where most of the website, such as paragraphs, which are
	sections of text, links, photos, and other various components of your 
	website. forms are used to gather information from your visitor, that 
	is submitted for a variety of uses such as logging in, placing an order
	for goods or services, or scheduling appointments. div is used more for 
	styling purposes, theyre broad containers that direct flow and group 
	similar elements together. span is similar to dev, but is an inline 
	element whereas div is a block element.

	the select element is used to give the user a drop down of options to 
	chooses from. h2 is a headline element, specifically the second one after 
	h1. it is generally smaller though can be styled with css to any alternative
	thats desired by you, and should always be used after h1 is used. ol and ul
	are used to make lists, ordered and unordered respectively. ordered lists
	use desending numbers, while unordered lists display dots or other shapes
	instead. table is used to, well, build and place tables on your page. tr 
	elements are placed in side the table, with td inside of them. tr is used
	to define the row, while td is used to define data in the cells of the row
	